Welcome, guys and girls, to this lecture.
So at this point, we know what is the container and how does it help avoid?
It works on my machine kind of scenarios.
So now the big question is what is container orchestrator?
Isn't orchestrator a big mouthful world?
It's like it's like framework.
It's like it's like blockchain, right?
It's like it's like one of those fancy words that no one has a proper idea, but you are too afraid
to ask.
Right.
So let's jump into it and get our concepts clear.
So you have created Docker images of two of your applications.
Application A and application B, and currently they are sitting in a place called Docker Registry.
So your applications are not really running.
It's just an image.
Sitting in a repository to run your applications, you need a host.
So one example of a host could be easy to.
The next step would be to bring those Docker images into the CC two and start running those Docker images
as containers.
So now your applications are running in containers in ESI two.
Now easy tools are like tools.
If you see one other ones are nearby.
What do I mean by that.
Well, if if it is just one easy to running in availability zone, if it goes down, it's not really
highly available, is it?
So to make it durable, you have to spin up another AC two in another availability zone.
Okay.
So now we have two visitors running with their applications.
Now let's say the traffic increases in your application.
So guess what?
You have to put this easy to in order scaling group so that it can scale out when the traffic increases.
So now we have this a pack of wolves or pack of easy tools running.
Now what if application B goes down in one of the easy tools?
So you have to detect which application in which to went down and then I bring it back up.
Since there are multiple easy tools running with multiple containers for your application, we need
something which can route traffic appropriately.
So here comes a load balancer.
As you can see, there is a lot going on.
So if we look at all the tasks we have deployment of containers, redundancy and availability of containers,
scaling up or down of containers, load balancing health, monitoring of containers and hosts, service
discovery and more.
So if you want to write code and processes to do all these tasks, you better be this guy or this guy
or this guy.
If you are not one of these guys, say hello to container orchestrators.
You got it.
So container orchestrator takes care of all the tasks associated to keep your containers up and running.
So we have more than one container orchestrator available in the market.
So let's take a look at some of them.
Docker Swarm.
Apache, Messrs.
Cattle Nomad Empire.
A.W. s Elastic Container Service and Tata the most popular one.
Kubernetes.
We have a w s x, which is elastic container service for Kubernetes.
And last but not the least, we have a w.
S forget.
Well, that's not the right icon.
There we go.
Now we are all set.
All right, so now we know what is content, orchestrator and what are some of these?
The most popular content orchestrator is, you guessed it right, Kubernetes, our guys and girls.
So in the next video, let's understand what is Kubernetes?
Our guys and girls.
See you in the next lecture by.